# Privacy-Preserving Structureless Visual Localization via Image Obfuscation

## Installation

```bash
git submodule update --init --depth 1
uv venv --python 3.12
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install <torch> <torchvision> [<xformers>] --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/<cu>
CUDA_HOME=<cuda-path> PATH=<cuda-path>/bin:$PATH \
    uv pip install -r requirements.txt --override requirements_override.txt --no-build-isolation
```

Based on your CUDA version, you can pick the correct package version from the table:

| CUDA | Min driver (Linux) | `<torch>` | `<torchvision>` | `<xformers>` | `<cu>` | `<cuda-path>` |
|------|--------------------|-----------|-----------------|--------------|--------|---------------|
| 13.0 | 570 | `torch==2.9.0` | `torchvision==0.24.0` | `xformers==0.0.33` | `cu130` | `/usr/local/cuda-13.0` |
| 12.4 | 550 | `torch==2.6.0` | `torchvision==0.21.0` | `xformers==0.0.29.post3` | `cu124` | `/usr/local/cuda-12.4` |
| 11.8 | 450 | `torch==2.6.0` | `torchvision==0.21.0` | `xformers==0.0.29.post3` | `cu118` | `/usr/local/cuda-11.8` |

**`CUDA_HOME` prefix:** can be omitted if you have only single CUDA version installed in its default location.

## Obfuscations from the paper

**blur** and **pixelization**
- Classic image obfuscations - blurring with Gaussian kernel and pixelization.
- Implemented in `obfuscate_images.py`.

**easy-anon**
- Anonymization by masking certain parts of the image based on semantic segmentation.
- Not present in this repository - implemented in `https://github.com/spatial-intelligence-group/easy_anon`.

**Canny**
- Extraction of edges using Canny edge detector. CLAHE is applied before edge extraction.
- Implemented in `canny_inference.py`.
- The results in the paper should be generated with the default parameters.

**Metric3D --> Canny**
- Canny edges extracted from monocular depth maps generated by Metric3D.
- First run `metric3d_inference.py` to produce depth maps, then run `depth2edge.py` on the generated depth maps.

**DiffusionEdge**
- Edge extraction using a diffusion model.
- Implemented in `diffusion_edge_inference.py`.
- We used the model pretrained on NYUD: https://github.com/GuHuangAI/DiffusionEdge/releases/download/v1.1/nyud.pt

**SAM1**
- Mask extraction using Segment Anything Model 1 (SAM1) automatic mask generator.
- Use `sam1_inference.py`.
- Also supports filtering the grid points by [DB text detector](https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/db/d0f/classcv_1_1dnn_1_1TextDetectionModel__DB.html) (so the text is not visible in the SAM masks). Download and use the pretrained model listed in the documentation.

**SAM2**
- Mask extraction using Segment Anything Model 2 (SAM2) automatic mask generator.
- Use `sam2_inference.py`.
- Same as SAM1, the script also supports filtering the grid points by DB text detector.
**Mask2Former**
- Mask extraction using Mask2Former semantic/panoptic segmentation.
- Use `Mask2Former/demo/demo.py`.